What is bias and variance ?
Bias - Bias Means error of the training data.
Variance - Variance means error of the testing data.


What is generalized model?
Good Model or Generalized Model
Accuracy during training as well as testing is very high.
It is able to perform well on training dataset as well as on testing dataset.
For the best model – High accuracy during training as well as high accuracy during testing.

It has Low Training error
It has Low Testing Error

It has Low Bias
It has Low Variance




What is overfitting ?
Accuracy during training is very high but accuracy during testing is very low then this condition is called overfitting.
It is able to perform well on training dataset but it does not perform well on testing dataset.

It hasLow Training error
 It has High Testing Error

It has Low Bias
It has High Variance

How we avoid overfitting ? 
cross validation
training with more data
remove features
regularization



What is underfitting ?
Accuracy during training is very low but accuracy during testing is very high then this 
condition is called underfitting.

It  does not perform well on training dataset as well as on testing dataset.

It has High Training error
It has  High Testing Error

It has High Bias
It has  High Variance

How we avoid underfitting ? 
increase no. of features
increase the data size




What is bias variance tradeoff ?
when there is a huge bias it means the model has not learned the relevant relationship between the features and the target values. This is also called as Underfitting. And, when there is a high variance 
it means that the model has learned the data well so that it includes the noise. This is also called Overfitting.

We need to have a model that is neither underfitting and nor overfitting. which is called as Bias-Variance trade-off.
If there is no balance between variance and bias then the model will not be able to generalize a failure to perform well on new data.
