What is Regularization technique ?
Regularization is a technique in machine learning used to avoid the overfitting problem. 
Regularization works by adding a penalty to the complex model.



What are the different types of regularization technique ?
There are basically two types of regularization technique : 
1. Ridge Regression (L2 Regularization)
2. Lasso Regression (L1 Regularization)

What are the Difference between L2 Regularization and L1 Regularization ?
Ridge Regression (L2 Regularization) :-
In this technique, the cost function is altered by adding the penalty term to it.
The amount of bias added to the model is called Ridge Regression penalty. 
We can calculate it by multiplying with the lambda to the squared weight of each individual feature.
Loss = error (y, y^) + lambda * summation (w2) where w = all weights


Lasso Regression  (L1 Regularization)
Lasso regression is another regularization technique to reduce the complexity of the model.
It is similar to the Ridge Regression except that the penalty term contains only the absolute weights instead of a square of weights.
Since it takes absolute values, hence, it can shrink the slope to 0, whereas Ridge Regression can only shrink it near to 0.
Some of the features in this technique are completely neglected for model evaluation.
Hence, the Lasso regression can help us to reduce the overfitting in the model as well as the feature selection.
Loss = error (y, y^) + lambda * summation |w| where w = all weights



Key difference between Lasso Regression  (L1 Regularization) and Ridge Regression  (L2 Regularization)
In the case of Ridge regression is mostly used to reduce the overfitting in the model, and it includes all the features present in the model. 
It reduces the complexity of the model by shrinking the coefficients.
In the case of  Lasso regression helps to reduce the overfitting in the model as well as feature selection.


What is lambda in regularization ?
lambda is a Hyperparameter Known as regularisation constant and it is always greater than zero.


 